Hear this carefully..
Are you able to recognise this statement?
Mutual Fund investments are subject to market
risks.
Read all scheme-related documents carefully.
Vaguely reminiscent of having heard it somewhere..
yes?
But..
This is not how you hear it when you hear
it.
THIS is how it runs.
Mutualfundinvestmentsaresubjecttomarketrisks.
Readallscheme-relateddocumentscarefully!
Why?
This is the equivalent of an audio fine-print.
Why do they do it like this?
We are going to explore the various dimensions
from which we can look at that Fine Print.
Namaste!
The Fine Print!
Way back in 2007, there was a movie titled
The Ghost Rider.
Johnny Blaze is a stunt rider.
His dad is afflicted with cancer.
He is upset, not knowing what to do.
The Devil visits him.
And, says this.
“The thing about cancer is the time it takes…
the toll on loved ones.
Johnny, what if I could help your dad?”
Johnny wants to know “How!”
And, he replies, “How is not important.
What if I could make him better?
Give him back his health?
Would you be willing to make a deal?”
Johnny is ready.
“Name your price”, he says.
The Devil says, “Oh, I will take your…”…
looks around and adds, “soul”..
I will give you all the riches in the world.
All the powers anybody would ever want.
Give me your SOUL.
That’s probably the sneakiest deal ever
made.
It happens even in The Bible, if you remember
the stories.
The Fine Print is all that matters.
Once upon a time, cigarrette packaging used
to look like this.
To understand what the dangers are, you need
to.. first of all have very good vision.
And, you must turn it around at odd angles
to make out what is written.
And, the message there would be, “The Surgeon
General is warning.
Pregnant women MAY be affected.”
Do you know how it is today?
This is how it is!
The Fine Print is no longer fine print.
It is on your face.
With gory photographs like this.
People suffering.
And textual messages like that.
Something seems to have changed along the
way.
This rock group was called Van Halen.
Eddie Van Halen, an amazing guitarist, and
the band he created and conducted in the 70s
and 80s.
This band, when it traveled, it used to make
some demands.
If you want us to come to your city, and perform
a concert in your stadium there, these are
the things I need…
They would send a request ahead, up front..
But, before we get to that, let us first enjoy
this short video and understand what kind
of performers they were..!
Panama is the name of the song being performed.
So, almost loony performers, extremely athletic,
they got the crowd moving, and they really
needed special apparatus.
But, no, it wasn’t just about the apparatus.
Look at this list.
This is what they sent ahead of time..
Only later did they find out why they were
sending this eclectic list.
Because, the apparatus required was so complicated,
and even if one thing failed, the quality
of the performance, the, probably the HEALTH
of the performer, the injury, could happen..
And so, they needed to cross-check.
But, to cross-check a million things, it wasn’t
easy.
And, so you know what these people did?
They sent a funny list like this, and they
used to go to the snack bar, and look for
the M&M’s they had asked for.
And, once they confirmed that the M&M’s
were there, they would scrutinise the bowl
for BROWN M&M’s.
And, if they found even one.., “Oh my God,
these organisers aren’t really reading the
messages we are sending them..
They are not giving any attention to detail..
The Fine Print seems to have been lost.
And, so, we may have to check everything once
again..!”
This was their red herring.
This was their beacon.
They used this to evaluate the performance
of the stage managers and organisers!
How interesting!
This lady, Donelan Andrews..
She won a ten thousand dollar lottery, and
guess how?!
She took out a travel insurance.
She, and six others in her school group, decided
to travel to London.
And, for that, they need to sign a document,
long agreements, etc, and you need to pay
money, and that is how you get your insurance.
But, the insurance agency, on the seventh
page of the document, they had started a paragraph
saying, “It pays to read.
Thank you for reaching till here.
The first person who writes an email to us
after reading this paragraph, gets ten thousand
dollars.
Thank you for reading..!”
That lady wrote, they honored the agreement,
and she won ten thousand dollars.
And, who was she?
She was a schoolteacher.
Even when at school, she used to give exam
instructions like these..
Who reads them though?
Do you read instructions ever?
Nor do I!
But, as the fifth item in the list, she would
say, “Circle every prime number answer in
the answer paper, and get ten marks extra!”
Just a way to check (and encourage) that you
read the instructions carefully!
She had grown up giving tests like that!
Donelan Andrews!
Fine Print is important.
That Fine Print is important, you don’t
need to go beyond this famous story, to prove
it.
The Merchant of Venice by William Shakespeare.
Shylock, the heartless Jew, has lent money..
And, wants it back.
And, knowing Antonio is not going to be able
to pay it, will show his document.
“If I can’t pay on time, I will pay you
a pound of flesh” — the document read.
And, he would ask for the pound of flesh..,
knife brandishing.
That lady, Portia is her name, she is the
person who is dealing with that case, for
her lover.
She looks at the document, appeals to the
judge, appeals to the Jew, nothing works,
and then she realises there exists a loophole
and exclaims, “Hey, waittaminnit, .. You
are looking for the pound of flesh.
Take it.
But, not an ounce more.
Not an ounce less.
Exactly one pound.
Take it.
And, oh, by the way, not a drop of blood.
Because, that isn’t mentioned here.
So, in this legal world.., why do these legal
document sound so complicated, sound so convoluted?
Well, .. to prevent such sudden twists in
cases such as these!
Language is porous.
Language is ambiguous.
Human nature is to be cunning and to bend
it the way they want it.
Without any other go, we are forced to have
language like this.
But, when doing customer service…
Well, if it is legal, that is understandable.
But, when you are doing it for a customer,
your aim should be to make users awesome.
We have seen this lady earlier too.
In this book, Badass, she talks about a beautiful
dichotomy.
Take a single product..
Like, the Camera.
That camera is here to make life so much easier,
make fame so much reachable, for that photographer.
Okay..
How do you sell it?
What visuals do you use when marketing it?
Before I give you my money, this is how you
are advertising it to me.
An adventurous scene.
An amazing camera angle.
A HDR-quality background of blue sky.
Eye-candy!
You make me drool!
But, what happens after I have given you the
money.
This is what happens.
This is how every manual on earth looks..
If I have to achieve something, if I have
to understand, after I have given you the
money, this is how you treat me.
WHY?!
She asks..
Think about this.
Good marketing focuses on what the potential
user REALLY wants to do.
What do they want to do?
AFTER they buy?
You should be focusing on that, shouldn’t
you?
She concludes by saying:- “They don’t
want to be badass at using our thing.
Probably our camera.
Probably our tool.
Probably our software.
They don’t want to become expert at using
that.
They want to be badass at what they do with
it.
They want badass results.
If you focus on that deeply, you can avoid
cheating using fine print and hiding behind
legal mumbo-jumbo”.
That is what this company did.
A 28-page legal document.
That terms-and-agreement document was converted
into an image, a flow-chart, something even
kids would be able to understand.
Yes, there was a “Word from our Lawyer”
at the bottom, but this gave them a refreshingly
new perspective..
“Wow!
A company that is so helpful to their users?!
A service that is so friendly?
I would like to do business with that company!”
In 2010, Obama signed a Law.
An Act.
Plain Writing Act of 2010.
What I love about it?
The intent of the Act itself was an example
of plain writing.
Just three intents.
First, they want to help customers, visitors
to the website, citizens of the country, find
what they need.
Having found it, they have to be able to understand
what they found.
And, finally, use what they found to meet
their needs.
How simple!
How profound!
How powerful!
How beautiful!
Assume a hotel, and a waiter at your service.
I am locating it at two spaces.
One, in the middle of nowhere.
A long highway.
Where you have been driving for hours, you
want to take a rest, and you hop off.
Thirty minutes, one time interaction, you
have never been there before, you probably
will never be there again.
Compare the attitude of that server.. with…
A hotel in the center of a densely populated
city..
Close to your home.
Your regular haunt.
A Saravana Bhavan.
Or a Vasantha Vihar.
Imagine a hotel waiter in that location.
I will ask you two questions.
Tell me if the mentality of that waiter would
be the same, or if it would be different.
Question number One.
If you were ordering a salad, would he just
chop the cucumber and tomato and offer it
to you on a plate, or.. would he apply a special
garnish, a swan-bird decoration and an additional
flourish?
How would he do it in the highway case, and
in the city-center case?
Question Number Two.
Assume you leave, and you forget to take your
smartphone or your wallet.
Will you be able to get it back HERE, or HERE?
What am I underlining?
I am underlining the difference between a
one-time transaction between a stranger and
a lifelong growing value of a customer who
is with you forever.
In the city-center case, the waiter takes
the effort to add that flourish.
Because, there is competition.
You are going to try out the neighbouring
joint if he doesn’t do a good enough job!
But, that’s not the story with the highway
location.
No competition.
In the city-center, you will come back.
Stealing your wallet or smartphone, on that
single day, I will gain very little.
Compared to the lifelong relationship I am
going to have with you.
That is not the case with the highway location.
In fact, I can ask you Question Number Three.
Where will you tip more, to the waiter?
At the highway joint?
When are you even going to set eyes upon him
again?
Or, at the city-center?
You may return as early as tomorrow itself!
Get the point?
Fine Print!
Do not hide behind it any more!
Understand that we are in a crowded marketplace
and differentiate by being clear, lucid, friendly.
As a closing thought, I want to take you to
this website!
At Dilbert’s website, they have a Mission
Statement Generator!
You can choose randomly highfalutin adverbs,
verbs, adjectives, and nouns.
And, it will keep spewing out blah-blah-blah
statements through the pointy-haired-boss!
It tells you how cheap and vulgar and how
simple and boring the concept of a mission
statement is.
Do not hide behind legalese.
Do not hide behind Fine Print.
Come out into the open.
Show us that you are ready and waiting
to serve your customer.
Thank you!